docs: Maven/Gradle executor (#1820)
kubeshop/testkube: docs/executor-maven.md

> # Maven based tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Maven-based Tests
```

> Testkube allow us to run Maven based tasks which could be also tests. For example we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube now. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testkube allows us to run Maven-based tasks which could be also tests. For example we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube now. 
```

## **Test Environment**

> We'll try to put simple JUnit test to our cluster and run it, Testkube Maven Executor handles `mvn` and `mvnw` binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll try to put simple JUnit test to our cluster and run it. Testkube Maven Executor handles `mvn` and `mvnw` binaries.
```

> Because maven projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure we'll need to load them from Git directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Maven projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure. We'll need to load them from a Git directory.
```

> You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven/tree/main/examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven/tree/main/examples.
```

> Let's create some simple test which will check if some env variable is set to true: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a simple test which will check if an env variable is set to true: 
```

```java
package hello.maven;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

class LibraryTest {
    @Test void someLibraryMethodReturnsTrue() {
        String env = System.getenv("TESTKUBE_MAVEN");
        assertTrue(Boolean.parseBoolean(env), "TESTKUBE_MAVEN env should be true");
    }
}
```

> Default Maven executor look like below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Maven executor: 
```

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.4
  types:
  - maven/project
  - maven/test
  - maven/integration-test 
```

> As we can notice there are several types, Maven excutor handle second part after `/` like task name, so `maven/test` will run `mvn test` and so on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see, there are several types. The Maven executor handles the second part after `/` as a task name, so `maven/test` will run `mvn test` and so on. 
```

> One exception from this rule is `project` which is generic one and force you to pass additional argument during test execution e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One exception from this rule is `project` which is a generic one and forces you to pass additional arguments during test execution. For example:
```

```sh
kubectl testkube run maven-example-project --args='runMyCustomTask' 
```

> ## **Create a New Maven based Test**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Create a New Maven-based Test**
```

```sh
kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven --type maven/test --name maven-example-test --git-branch main
```

## **Running a Test**

Let's pass the env variable to our test run:

```sh
kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true

# ...... after some time

Test execution completed with success in 16.555s 🥇

> Watch test execution until complete:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch the test execution until complete:
```

$ kubectl testkube watch execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993

> Use following command to get test execution details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to get test execution details:
```

```sh
kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

Output:

```sh
# ....... a lot of Maven logs

Downloaded from central: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/junit/platform/junit-platform-launcher/1.7.2/junit-platform-launcher-1.7.2.pom (3.0 kB at 121 kB/s)
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO]  T E S T S
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Running hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 0.052 s - in hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] 
[INFO] Results:
[INFO] 
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
[INFO] 
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  9.851 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2022-07-18T09:06:15Z
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Status Test execution completed with success 🥇
```

## Using different JDKs 

In Java world usually you want to have control over Runtime environment, Testkube can easily handle that for you! 

> We're building several Java iamges to handle constraints which Maven can put in it's build file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're building several Java images to handle constraints which Maven can put in it's build file.
```

> To use different executor you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own docker image based on maven executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a different executor you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own Docker image based on a Maven executor.
```

Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs, to handle that issue just create new Maven executor 

content of `maven-jdk18-executor.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-jdk18-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.0-jdk18   # <-- we're building jdk
  types:
  - maven:jdk18/project # <-- just create different test type with naming convention "framework:version/type"
  - maven:jdk18/test
  - maven:jdk18/integration-test 
```

> > tip: look for recent executor versions here https://hub.docker.com/repository/registry-1.docker.io/kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Tip: Look for recent executor versions here https://hub.docker.com/repository/registry-1.docker.io/kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated.
```

And add it to your cluster: 
```sh
kubectl apply -f maven-jdk18-executor.yaml 
```

> Now just create new test with type which our new executor can handle e.g.: `maven:jdk18/test`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create a new test with a type which our new executor can handle e.g.: `maven:jdk18/test`
```

```sh 
 # create test
 kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven-jdk18 --type maven:jdk18/test --name maven-jdk18-example-test --git-branch main

# and run it
kubectl testkube run test maven-jdk18-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true
```

## **Summary**

> Testkube simplifies running Java tests based on maven and allows to easily merge Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testkube simplifies running Java tests based on Maven and simplifies the merging of Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem.
```
